In order to make an investment decision, we will need to familiarize ourselves with the four basic rules that are applied in this process
The first rule is related to the pure given value, abbreviated as NPV
Next, the Internal Revenue Rate, IRR
Next, the profitability index and the period of purchase
The last two parameters are familiar to us from the standard procedures of the economic analysis of the enterprise
But they are used with an amendment to the discount
The first two, NPV and IRR, are entirely and completely built on the model of assessing the value of a financial asset
We will also consider a couple of points in this section, but more on that later
So, the pure given value, abbreviated as NPV, is the difference between the discounted investments in the project and the discounted cash flows from the project
Remember, when we work in the standard economy, when we operate with accounting, we take the expenses per nominal and the income per nominal, and find the difference
In our case, we use the expenses and income in the same way, but only after the discount
So, if you discount, returning to the example of determining your value
If you discount all your expenses that you will have to make in the next year, and all your income that you will have to get in the next year
You will get two numbers, then subtract the expenses from the income, you will get a difference, either positive or negative
And this will be evidence that you have income for this year, or vice versa, you do not have it and you will fall into some debts to someone
Returning to our slide, the rule of using NPV
You can accept a project for execution, for financing, if the NPV is greater than zero
You can, if you have several projects, accept a project for execution, whose NPV is the largest
These are simple rules
But I would like to ask you a question, if the NPV project is zero, should you accept such a project for execution, if there are no others?
There are situations when such a project can be accepted for execution, why?
Because thanks to such a project, you can save your capital
Your capital will not decrease, but it will not grow, it will remain at the previous level, and this is already an achievement
You were able to save it over the past year, not lose it
So in some cases, a project with a zero NPV can be accepted
At the same time, I will draw your attention to the fact that a project with a zero NPV will certainly have an accounting profit
Let's look at a more detailed example
The next slide shows the calculations
So, the investment in the project is 100 units
Let's assume that these investments are made at once, at the current time, they do not need to be discounted
At the current time, we do this to make the example easier
The project is designed for 5 years, and its cash flows are 20, 20, 20, 30, and 30 units
If we add them up by the nominal, we get a profit of 120 minus 100, the income is certainly higher than the expenses
The discount rate is 10%, in other words, the market value of resources is 10%
Then we substitute everything in the formula
NPV, we take the investment in the project with a minus sign, because it is the cash flow
Everything else we take with a plus sign, because it is the inflow of cash
Please note that the discount rate is not in percents, but in dollars
So, if we calculate by this formula, for example, a computer or Excel can do it very quickly
Then we get that NPV is equal to, look, the second line
20 units of income received in a year today cost us about 18
20 units of income received in two years today cost us about 16
Then 15 and income of 30 units per year we turn into today's 20 and 18
If we add them all up, we get only 88, almost 89 units
This is not enough to get to zero NPV
We get a negative NPV
In fact, if we take up the implementation of this project, and even if we successfully implement it, we will incur a financial loss of 11 units
This is an absolute value
In the absence of other information, we can say that this project should be rejected
The next rule is related to the so-called period of payback
This is a period that is required to reimburse the investment, but taking into account the discounting procedure
Let's look at an example, it is shown on the slide
The same initial 100 units of investment, the same 5 years for which the project is designed
If we take the already discounted cash flows, let them be equal to 25, 25, 25, 25 and 30
4 times 25, the last year 30 units
And check the NPV, yes, there are 30 units
Now about the period of payback
Our initial 100 units will pay off exactly in the first 4 years
There is no formula, everything is quite obvious
You add up the cash flows until the amount does not exceed the initial investment
If our investment amount was not 100 units, but 110, what would be the period of payback?
Now the answer
In order to get the necessary amount of 110 units, we will have to wait 4 years
25, 25, 25, 25, 100, and we need 110
4 years with the last 5 years will bring us 30 units of income
We need to get 10 more units for the return of investment
Therefore, it is 1 third of the amount
Thus, we can say that the period of payback in this case will be 4.1 years
The next rule is the use of the profitability index
The profitability index is almost the same as the NPV, but expressed in percents
If we found a difference between the investment in the project and the income from the project
In this case, we need to find the relationship between the two amounts
You can see an example here
If the income from the project is 130 units, our investment in the project is 100 units
The profitability index gives us 130%
The rule of application is very simple
If the index is greater than 1, we accept the project, if it is less, we reject it
If it is greater than 1, it means that the NPV is greater than 0
If it is less than 1, it means that the NPV is less than 0
There are situations when you compare different projects, but with different amounts
The profitability index allows you to move away from absolute numbers and move to relative numbers
Now about the internal profitability rate
This is the next slide
It is quite interesting and the moment when many people start to get confused
Although there is nothing complicated there
The internal profitability rate is a percentage rate
In which the NPV of the project is 0
Of course, it should be a project with a positive NPV
Then the internal profitability rate will be positive
The internal profitability rate cannot be negative
Any percentage rate cannot be negative
Look at the slide
At the formula that is written there
You see that the example with an investment project
Where we have 100 units of investments
And for the first 4 years and the last 30 years
Our cash flows
What about the indicators?
The indicators have the same value
IRR
Unfortunately, there is no mathematical formula to calculate IRR
The easiest way is to find this rate in the computer
For example, IRR is 9.0%
This means that at the cost of resources on the market
At the cost of money
9.0%
9.18%
Your project will have a zero NPV
But if you have a rate that you can discount
A rate at which you attract money
Or a rate at which you must work
Less than 6%
7%
Then you will definitely have a positive NPV
So, if IRR
Internal profitability rate
This is the rule
If IRR is more profitable
More market profitability
Or required profitability
The project can be accepted
We can also say that IRR is a kind of indicator of the project's strength, reliability, and stability
It is a kind of a reserve of the project's strength
The greater the difference between IRR and market profitability
The more stable your project will be in the future
The more reliable your project will be in the future
We make investment decisions
We are forced to predict the future, which is not determined
Therefore, the more stable the project is in relation to the risk of changing the interest rate in the future
The better
Therefore, when making a decision, you must focus
When making a decision, when choosing investment projects
You must focus on the NPV, its absolute value
The period of profitability
The profitability index
And IRR
All these parameters together
Will give you information
About how profitable this project is
How much it will increase capital
How fast it will pay off
And how stable it will be in the future
Each of these parameters should not be used separately
Only together
Another question arises
Since IRR and NPV intersect in something
Which of these two parameters is better?
Can't we use one parameter to assess the investment project?
Why use a lot?
There are such situations, such questions
What is better?
The absolute value of NPV or the relative value of IRR?
The question is controversial, there is no definite answer
But here we need to clarify
That IRR, unlike NPV, is a capricious lady
And has its nuances
Before we talk about these nuances
It should be clarified that there are different types of money flows
And depending on the type, there can be nuances related to IRR
There are three main types of money flows
Traditional money flow
This is a traditional money flow
A borrowed money flow
And several types of non-traditional money flows
Let's start with the traditional
Traditional money flow
It means that you spent money at first
That is, you have a flow at first
And then every period you have a flow of money
A borrowed type of money flows
It assumes that you have attracted resources from somewhere
And then you spend them gradually every period
Finally, non-traditional is a combination of the first two
But in a situation where over time
Your money flows change signs
That is, today you invested money, it is a flow
Then you had inflows for three years in a row
And then, for example, in 2004 you had some problems
You have a flow of money resources
And then again an inflow
This will be a non-traditional money flow
And it leads to the fact that you have not one IRR, but two
Oddly enough
So, what do money flows look like?
The following slide shows us what a traditional money flow looks like
Pay attention
With the growth of profitability, the NPV is reduced
This is quite natural
And IRR is the point where the line of our project intersects the horizontal axis
A borrowed type of money flow is a reverse line
By the way, the lines may not necessarily be curved
The project line can be straight
So it's just a drawing
NPV on this drawing, you see, grows with the growth of profitability
This is a borrowed type of money flow
Finally, a non-traditional money flow
One of its varieties
In this case, it is a borrowed money flow
You see that with the growth of profitability, the NPV grows
Then there is a moment, a point of X-interruption
After which, with the growth of profitability, the NPV begins to fall
In this case, we will have two IRRs in the project
In principle, the maximum number of IRRs is the number of times that money flows change the sign from positive to negative or vice versa
It is obvious that with the multiplicity of IRRs in the project, its use is not purposeful
There is nothing to talk about
But if for some reason you want to have this parameter
You can do a recalculation and get rid of negative money flows
And thus bring your project to a traditional or borrowed type
How can this be done?
Let's look at the next two slides
So, this will be an example of recalculation
We have a project in which we spend 100 units in the first year
Then in the second year we get 60 units of income
Then we get 70 units of income
And in the last year, for some reason, we have a flow of money in the amount of 10 units
In other words, some additional investment
What does this mean?
This means that we will have two IRRs
But not very good
How can we get rid of this?
To do this, you need to get rid of minus 10 units
From the sum where we have minus 10 units
To do this, you need to bring minus 10 units of the money flow of the fourth year
To a type comparable to the money flows of the third year
And in the next slide you will see how we do it
Please note
Minus 10 units is money from the fourth year
You can get rid of them if you bring them to a comparable type with the third year
The next year, the fourth
So, what are we doing for this?
We must discount minus 10 units for one year
We discounted minus 10 units, we got, for example, minus 8 units
This is not a principal value, but for example, minus 8
Then our formula for determining NPV will look like this
Two last sums, 70 remains unchanged
1 plus R to the third degree
But the fourth sum has already changed its appearance
This is minus 8, 1 plus R to the third degree
The third and fourth sums are comparable
They can be reduced
As a result of the reduction, 70 minus 8 remains 62
Thus, please note
We got a formula, we got a new money flow, so to speak
In which there are minus 100 units of spending at the moment
During the current year
And two positive money flows for the next two years
This is the equivalent of the money flow we considered at the beginning
Namely, 60 after 2 years, 70 after 3, minus 10 after 4
Thus, we got rid of the minus and brought our calculation to the traditional money flow
Now we will have one NPV
It can be used
One nuance
To discuss it, we will return to the CIPM and VACC model
It would seem
If we know the profitability of our project
10%
Then we can calculate VACC
And depending on the capital expenditure
Say
Does this income suit us or not?
For example, our capital expenditures are 12%
12% is our capital expenditure
Our project's profitability is 10%
In theory, it seems that we should refuse it
But this is not the right approach
We can't say it without an operation
First of all, because, let's repeat, VACC does not take into account the risk factor
There are no discounting elements
Pay attention to the next slide
It shows two lines
The first horizontal line shows the VACC rate
It does not change depending on the project's risk
In this case, the risk of the financial asset is expressed in the beta coefficient
No matter how the risk changes, VACC remains unchanged
At the same time, the calculation of the CIPM model
This is the second horizontal line, it is called SML
The CIPM model shows how the risk and profitability of the financial asset are related
Now, pay attention to the gray field on the right
It says, a non-profitable project
If there is a dot with the word non-profitable project
If there is the profitability and risk of our project
It turns out to be an interesting picture
The profitability of our project is higher than the VACC value
It would seem that we should accept it
But no, such a project should not be accepted
Only because it is higher than VACC
The fact is that it is less than the CIPM
Which takes into account the ratio of risk and profit
In other words, with this value of risk, which is marked with a dot
Under the name of a non-profitable project
With this value of risk, the profitability should be much higher
Having passed this project, we take on a high risk of non-profitability
The other field is on the left, also a gray field
It is marked with the inscription, a profitable project
If we take a project located in this area
It certainly gives less profitability than VACC
It would seem that we should refuse it
But this is not true
The fact is that this project, with the level of risk it has
Has much more profitability than it should be, according to the logic of things
This is a profitable project, and such a project should be accepted
We have disassembled the basic rules of assessing investment projects
I remind you that the assessment of investment projects is mainly a decision
To accept the project for investment or not to accept it
There are four main parameters
This is NPV, the net value
IRR, the internal income rate
And also two parameters that also use the element of discounting
This is the term of the purchase and the profitability index
These are the basic parameters
We also considered the situation related to the multiplicity of the internal income rate
And the interaction of the CAPM and VACC models
I hope you remember what we talked about
I would ask you to get distracted from the video course
And solve the tasks that are presented in the work conspect
And then we will move on to the next topic
Which is related to some nuances of decision-making
We continue
Now I am addressing people who are in the topic
We move on to study how our basic rules, our basic logic
Can affect the adoption of certain current decisions
For example, decisions in the part of the financial, in the part of the borrowing policy
For example, in the part of the policy of balance sheets
For example, in the part of the selection of sales volumes
You can also talk about the credit policy
Whether to provide or not to provide commercial credit to your partner
You can also talk about the choice of the device
Most suitable from a financial point of view for this project
So, we will start this section with a question that sounds like this
Which borrowing policy within the horizon of planning is better?
There are two options
The first option means that you attract long-term borrowing funds
In the maximum volume
That is, in such a maximum volume that covers all your needs with a surplus
In this case, when you have free funds, and they will be most of the time
In this case, you are temporarily free resources, invest in high-liquid financial assets
Maybe the second option
When you attract long-term investments at a minimum
And at the time when you have a need for borrowing funds
And it will almost always arise, that is, there will be a certain shortage
In this case, you will attract short-term borrowing resources from the market
Both of these policies are reflected in the following two slides
Pay attention, the policy of maximum
That is, when you attract resources in the maximum volume
So, the amount and time are reflected in this graph
I mean the need for investment
It is more or less, more or less
There is a certain peak, you can attract long-term financing at this peak
All that is less than this peak, but higher than the needs of your project
These are temporarily free funds that you need to do something with
They need to be invested in high-liquid resources
The following graph shows us the policy of the minimum
It means that you choose a minimum limit from your investment needs
And on this minimum limit you attract long-term borrowing funds
But all that will be higher, pay attention
Except for one case, in all other cases on the graph
You will need to attract additional borrowing funds
These will be short-term, for example, bank loans
The choice of two policies, which one to choose
The policy of the maximum or the policy of the minimum
Depends on the cost of these resources
On your costs for these resources
Here the recommendation can only be in words
You need to calculate the costs for one policy, the costs for the second policy
Keep in mind that in the first case, the policy of the maximum
You will also have a profit from reinvesting in temporary funds
Somewhere between these two policies will be the golden mean
Where you need to choose by the method of selection
How, taking into account your costs for borrowing funds and repayment from them
I draw your attention to the fact that you will have a certain gap in interest rates
Namely, the interest rates on which you will invest will differ from the interest rates on which you will attract, even short-term resources
And the last thing on this topic
Why do we generally divide long-term investment and short-term?
Why do we highlight two policies?
The fact is that, I think it should also be obvious to you
That the interest rates on long-term resources and short-term resources are different from each other
Due to the fact that there is less risk in short-term loans
Therefore, the interest rate there should theoretically be lower than in the long-term
The next point is related to the management of balance sheets
The basic question that sounds here is the following
What should be the desired level of money on the accounts?
This intersects with the previous question regarding the choice of financing policy for the project
There are a number of models that suggest you calculate the recommended balance on the accounts
Please note that there is a set of formulas in the work conspectus that you can use in your work
I will only add one point, I will not comment on the formula, it is quite obvious
I will add only the following
It makes sense to determine the time when you have a profit or a deficit of funds on the account
After you determine this, discount them all, calculate their given value
Determine the NPV, the NPV analog for the deficit and profit of funds on the account
Then you will find out if you have excess or a shortage of resources on the horizon of planning
Further, if you break this whole period into separate parts, you will see when you need to create a reserve
If you have a deficit ahead, or an opportunity to invest resources if you have a profit ahead
In any case, the general approach is the same as in the previous item
You discount the deficit and profit and try to find the NPV analog
If you consider these two points preparatory, then now it's more interesting
More interesting is called providing or not providing a loan to a client
A topic that concerns all enterprises, without exception
Many times enterprises face the fact that the client asks for a loan for some reason
And sometimes the client leaves without receiving a loan
Sometimes, having received a loan, the client is so happy that he buys more or becomes a regular client
Let's consider two situations related to credit policy
For both situations, we will have some general parameters
Please pay attention to the slide related to credit policy
We will have several variables
The first is the price of the product
We will take the figure of 35 units for the calculation
The price of the product is the digit P
V is the variable costs
The letter P is the probability that the client will not pay it after receiving the loan
I repeat, this is the probability that the client will not pay it after receiving the loan
And finally, R is the profitability of the debitor's debt
So, the first situation
The client will make a purchase only if he is provided with a loan
This is a rather tough situation
Otherwise, he will refuse
What does the company have in this case?
It has two situations
In the first situation, it has two options for the development of the event
The first is that the company refuses to provide a loan to this stubborn client
who only wants a loan, otherwise he will refuse
The first situation is that the company refuses
In this case, it has no increase in cash flows
Everything is zero
The second situation is when the company goes to meet this client and gives him a loan
In this case, the company spends only variable costs
but plans to get a certain amount of cash flow in return
Pay attention to the slide
The cash flow is 1-pi multiplied by the price of the product
Again, 1-pi multiplied by the price of the product
This is the calculated amount of cash flow that the company will receive from the client
given that the client may not pay
We have a probability that the client will not pay in the amount of pi
I repeat again
If the company gives a loan, it risks its variable costs
but in return receives a price of the product multiplied by 1-pi
This is the calculated amount of cash flow that the client will receive
Now, if we put all these numbers together, we can build a formula
Pay attention to the slide
The logic is the same as everywhere
NPV is the difference between income and expenses
Our expenses are today's variable costs
They go with a minus sign
Minus V
Plus
Discounted payment
I repeat again
This is a variable client who will refuse to buy if he is not given a loan
but may not pay
So, a variable client, after a period of money payment
In the end, the NPV of this decision
whether to give him a loan or not, looks like this
If we use the numbers we had
we get the line that says NPV is equal to minus 15 and so on
If, for example, we take a certain figure of 30%
Suppose 30% of clients do not pay even after receiving a loan
30% of clients are not reliable
Even in this case, the NPV of this decision will be greater than 0
Accordingly, it turns out that if you give a loan
quite often, so that it can be considered a statistically significant action
then even with 30% of refugees
you will still have a positive inflow of resources
This decision will be correct
By the way, to fix this moment for you
you can pause now and calculate these numbers
Try to determine at what value of Pi, that is, the number of refugees
at what value of Pi the NPV will be zero
That is, above what value of Pi, you cannot give a loan
Please calculate
Now we move on to the next question
The next question is the second situation
The first situation was a one-time process
You give me a loan, and I buy you
Now the second situation
The client who made a purchase once becomes a regular buyer
and in the future does not refuse to buy
Quite a realistic assumption
There is no doubt about it
It happens quite often
Let's consider
If the company does not provide a loan, then nothing will happen to it
If the company provides a loan, then
On the one hand, it risks its variable costs
Their volume is V
But then it can get a value of P
if the client pays
It turns out that in the next period
the company either does not receive anything
because the client does not pay
or receives a full payment if the client pays
But since we assumed that he pays regularly
then there will be a constant difference between P and V
The cash flow over a period will be the difference between the cost of the product and the variable costs
Please pay attention to the slide on which the second situation is described
Let's move on to the next slide
The cost of each new client will be estimated as the revenue minus the cost of the company divided by R
Please remember the formula for the current cost
Please remember the formula for the valuation of the share price with a constant dividend
Don't you think this formula is similar?
Absolutely right!
It is the same formula
But instead of the dividend, we have a difference of P minus V
Now, about the effectiveness of lending
We must calculate the NPV of this solution
I repeat that we spend the variable costs
But on the other hand, we get a certain flow of money
This flow is constant
What does it mean?
It means that on the one hand, the amount is the difference between P and V
and on the other hand, there should be a correction for the risk of not fulfilling their obligations
The risk of the client not paying
This risk remains, it has not been canceled
As a result, our formula will look like this
We must adjust the cost of each new client to the percentage of non-return money
and compare it with our costs for this solution
As a result, we get the difference between the variable costs and the cost of each new client
with a correction for the risk of not fulfilling their obligations
Let's see what happens with this formula, which is reflected in our slide
It turns out that to find out the client's payment ability costs only 15 units
These are our variable costs
The cost of the client is an incredibly large amount
451 units
We calculated this according to the first formula
If we now calculate the NPV of our decision to provide a loan under such conditions
If we take even 30% of the non-return money, it turns out that the NPV is still positive
The cost of our client is more than 400
The costs to find out this case are only 15
If we take a look, the share of non-return money can be 70-80%
Please count the rest of the non-return money
This situation emphasizes once again that the provision of commercial loans is a very profitable business
Of course, it is risky, because no one canceled a 100% refusal of a loan
Nevertheless, according to our calculations, it is very profitable
It is not surprising that many companies are activating their activities in terms of providing such loans
Let's move on
Now we will consider the topic of NPV and sales volume interconnection
Interconnection of decision-making in the field of sales volume and NPV
Of course, we can consider other topics, such as the connection of NPV with amortization, with taxes
But the logic is the same everywhere
We will consider it in this example
So, the basic question
At what level of sales will the company be provided with financial profitability?
We will consider three levels of profitability
Minimum, calculated and financial
As you understand, the financial profitability level is the level at which the NPV of the project, the NPV of the business is zero
These are very high requirements for the project
Calculated profitability level is the level at which the company can cover its permanent costs and amortization
Permanent costs and amortization
Finally, there is the simplest level, the first level, the so-called minimum profitability level
This is the level of sales at which the NPV covers only the permanent costs
Of course, there can be no profit, no amortization
This is just the covering of the permanent costs
We will operate the term Operational cash flow
OSF
This is one of the options for direct calculation of cash flows
It includes the company's income up to the deduction of interest and taxes
Plus amortization and minus taxes
At the minimum profitability level, the operational cash flow should be zero
At the calculated profitability level, the company's cash flows should cover the permanent costs and cover amortization
Finally, at the financial profitability level, we should get the operational cash flows in full
But with such calculations to achieve zero NPV
Please refer to our slides
You can see that there is a dependence between the operational cash flows and the volume of sales
The formula of this dependence is presented on the slide
Where Q is the volume of sales and F is the permanent costs
P-V is the price of the product minus the variable costs
We are already familiar with the terms
The formula of the minimum profitability level is presented on the same slide
The difference between all three formulas will be in the volume of numbers
Please note
The minimum profitability level is Q
We substitute the value formula
Let's start with the denominator
41 minus 21
The difference between the price of the product and the variable costs
Now let's go up to the denominator
The denominator has a number 600 on the left
These are the permanent costs
On the right we have zero
This means that the operational cash flow is zero
There is no amortization, no profit, etc.
In order to ensure the minimum profitability level, this company must sell 30 units of its product
With this volume of sales, this company can cover its permanent costs
Now let's move on to the next slide
Here, unlike the previous formula, the difference is only in the number above the line on the right
Please note that the same 600 permanent costs, the same price of the product 41 minus 21
But only now we have 640 units of amortization in the structure of the operational cash flow
In order for the company to cover amortization and cover permanent costs, it must produce 62 units of its product
Produce and sell
Let's make an addition
This was the calculated profit-free sales level
Now we need to determine the financial profit-free sales level, with which this project is provided by zero NPV
To do this, we need to determine the cost, the annual size of the operational cash flow
Which will include the amortization of those 40-640 units we talked about
Please pay attention to our slide, everything is described there
I will only say that the total investment of the project is 3.2 million
The annual income is 20%
We need to determine the annual cash flow
Since the project is designed for 5 years
What should be the annual cash flow
Please remember that we went through the model of the cost of annuity
This model assumes that you can calculate the cost of a set, a series, annual payments of the same amount
If you know this amount, the number of years or periods and the interest rate
In this case, the interest rate is 20, the number of years is 5, and the total amount is known
We know the cost of annuity, but we don't know the amount
In the formula, it was the size of the coupon
In this formula, we talk about the parameters of operational cash flow
We use the capitalization coefficient
As a result, we get that the annual nominal cost of the company's cash flows is 1070 units
Every year, 1070 units should be generated by this project
In order to ensure the financial profitability of our project
You probably noticed that we took 3,200, the cost of our investments
We could say that we have the cost of investments, we have the cash flow from these investments
But their cost, I repeat,
If we took a different number, not 3,200
For example, we would say that we have the cash flow from our project of 3,300
Then we would calculate for our cash flow OSF
Based on the fact that the NPV is greater than 0
In this case, we take 3,200
This number corresponds to both the investment and the cash flow from our project
Since the two numbers are the same, the NPV is 0
When we set the value of the operational cash flow, we get 83.5
This means that the company must sell 84 units of goods annually
To ensure the financial profitability level, that is, to ensure the NPV of its project
We note that 85 units of goods should be produced under the conditions of this project
Our financial profitability level is 84
The difference is very small, this is a dangerous situation
Because the project has no reserve
Without a reserve, it can become a victim of any negative change in the interest rate on the market
In any case, we have seen three situations
The most important is the last point, namely the financial profitability level
Now we will consider the same, but on a graph
Please refer to the slide
Here you see a line that reflects the dependence between the cash flows and the volume of sales
You see three points here
Minimum level, calculated level and financial profitability level
This is just an illustration, I hope it will help you better remember this point
Of course, the company can work for a while at a minimum level of profitability
Of course, the company can work for a long time at a calculated level of profitability
But in order for the company to count on capital growth, it must exceed the financial profitability level of sales
If the company is counting on the stock market, on the growth of the stock market,
it must operate on the cash flows and strive for the cash flows to exceed the calculated value
The next point is the choice of several devices with the same functions
of the device that is the least financially expensive
Again, I ask you to refer to the slide
The basic question is how to choose a device with the same functions, but with different service terms,
the most profitable from a financial point of view
We will have an example
The logic is very simple, it is based on discounting
Let's look at an example
We have two devices
The first one costs 100 units, it will last for two years
Annual expense for this device is 10 units
The second device costs 140 units, it will last for three years
Annual expense for this device is 8 units
How do we compare these two devices?
We must calculate their cost
The cost of these devices
If it was a finished object that would give a profit,
we would consider it a profit from the project
But in this case, it is a mechanism, a part of the whole
We can evaluate its financial efficiency only from the point of view of the costs for this project
The rule is simple
The lower the costs, the better this device
With the same technical characteristics
Please, look at the slide
We calculate the PV, the cost, and the expense for both devices
The first device is the price of its purchase
Plus the discounted costs for the first year, plus the discounted costs for the second year
It turns out 117 kopecks
The second device is more expensive, 140 kopecks
Plus the costs for the first year, the discounted costs for the second year, and the costs for the third year
All the same discounted
As a result, it turns out 159 units
What is better, 159 or 117?
We can not answer this question
Because these two numbers have different periods, different deadlines
The first number 117 is calculated for 2 years
The second number 159 is calculated for 3 years
It would seem to divide the first one by 2, the second by 3
And here is the solution to the problem
No, this is not the right solution to the problem
This is a solution for accounting, for the nominal economy
We are talking about an economy where there is a discounting procedure
Therefore, we must use, again, we return to the model of evaluating the cost of annuity
In this case, these 117 and 159 are the cost of an annuity
The cost of annuity, which in one case is two years, in another case is three years
Again, we look at our slide and see that the cost of annuity for the first device is 67 units
For the second 64 units
Again, we have two-year costs, they are 117 and three-year, 159
The cost of the first device is 117 units
This is equivalent to two payments, two equal payments, if we talk about annuity
Two equal payments, the first year and the second year
How do we calculate the sum of one of these payments?
We must use the annuity formula
1.74 is the capitalization coefficient obtained by the formula 14
We need to use the capitalization coefficient for it
The number of years is two years, the interest rate is 10%
We got the capitalization coefficient
We determined that if two times 67 is paid, we get 117
The second device is 159, these are the total costs for it, and 2.49 is the capitalization coefficient
For its calculation, we took the number of years 3 and the interest rate
If 64 is paid three times in a row, the total cost of three 64 units is 159.9
Now we need to compare the two numbers given for one year
Remember, at first we determined the total costs for each device
And then we brought these costs, which were different in time, to one year
It turns out about 67, about 64
We must choose the second device, because the costs for it in the annual measurement are less
The costs for it in the annual measurement are less, they are only 64
At this point, we begin to finish our course, which consists of the basic rules of the investment project assessment
Some technical solutions that we have just disassembled
The application of these basic rules, namely the application of NPV to the current analysis of economic activity
In conclusion, we will analyze the last point
The fact is that the company can consider many investment projects at the same time
And it often happens that in the work of one company there are two or three projects
As practice shows, projects can be independent, or they can be dependent
If the projects are independent, then we have no problems
We use the tool we talked about and try to choose the best project, taking into account the realities of the environment
If they are independent, then the projects can be dependent
In this case, we will name four types of dependence
There is a dependency that replaces, excludes and replaces
In our slide, they are listed
Project A and B can be interrelated, dependent
If the implementation of project A leads to the deterioration of project B parameters
Maybe the implementation of project A leads to the improvement of project B parameters
Maybe the implementation of project A leads to the fact that project B cannot be implemented at all
These are mutually exclusive projects
When the implementation of one makes the implementation of another impossible
Or financially unprofitable
Finally, projects A and B can be called statistically dependent
If they depend on some external event that has a statistical or probability nature
Please refer to the slides
We will look at the graph with two mutually exclusive projects A and B
Mutually exclusive is a vivid example of how to act when you have dependent projects
First, let's look at two lines
Here we have the vertical of NPV and the horizontal of profitability
We consider the interrelation of NPV and profitability of two of our projects
They are mutually exclusive
Project A and B
The intersection point of these projects is point X
By the way, in the intersection point, as you can guess, the NPV of both projects must be zero
Now, these projects have IRR
Here it is marked on the graph
What is interesting, before we move on to the topic
Before the intersection point X, project B was more profitable than project A
After the intersection point X, the profitability of the projects changes
And project A becomes more profitable than project B
Please note that on this graph, on the left of the internal profitability rates
There are three dotted lines
They intersect with two fat dots that indicate the points
Please note that at one level of risk, project B has more profitability than project A
At one level of risk
This determines that this project is more profitable
In this case
If we do the same thing on the right of the intersection point
We will see the opposite picture
At the same level of risk, in this case, profitability
Project A will be more profitable than project B
Its line will be higher than project B
This is for your information
Now, as for the rules of analysis of dependent projects
When you take project A and it affects project B
You must keep in mind that the money flows that you generate
After taking project A, you must include the changes that occur in project B
In other words, if you have two mutually exclusive projects
And you took project A from them
You took project A
You will calculate all the money flows
You must take into account that you did not take project B
If project B brought you some financial profit
This means that you are carrying a financial loss
You must reflect this state on the money flows of project A
I will repeat it one more time
You have two projects
And you can choose only one
After choosing one, you must take into account the consequences of the refusal of the second
Financial consequences of the refusal of the second
And add them to the money flows of the basic project
After that, you make all the standard calculations that we talked about
NPV, IRR, and everything else
This was the last remark in this course
Regarding the analysis of the financial flows of investment projects
For making investment decisions
Now we need to sum up our course
We have considered the need for fundamentally new thinking
Maybe at some point you lost the thread
You stopped understanding what we are talking about
Maybe this is the case
Please, go back to the beginning
And try to read the course outline again
The need for examples of change of thinking
Because this is the basis for understanding the logic of money flows
Although there is nothing wrong with it
You just need to understand the logic
The first one is the need for change of thinking
The fact that thinking changes leads to the fact that the price of education on financial assets changes
This change of thinking on financial assets led us to the fact that
After the course, we started to consider the topic of the valuation of financial assets
We understood what discounting is
Then we talked about the effective interest rate
And asked you to go to the nearest bank to conduct a small study
Finally, we analyzed three options for the valuation of the value of the asset
The valuation of the value of the loan, the valuation of the value of the bonds, and the valuation of the value of the shares
Although I repeat that the basis of each of these estimates is the same phenomenon
Namely, the discounting of the money flows
Only in the case of a loan, it is the return of the principal amount of the debt along with the interest
In the case of bonds, it is the payment of coupons and the return of the principal amount of the debt
And in the case of shares, it is the payment of dividends or another analogue
Without the return of the principal amount of the debt
Payment of dividends for an unlimited period
So, we understood this logic, I hope
And our next step was to understand how we will calculate the value of the investment project
We need to know the discount rate, or rather, we need to be able to choose it
And we need to be able to calculate the money flows of the investment project
After all, money flows from the shares are mostly dividends
And the money flows of the project are completely different
We considered possible options, namely the choice of the market index
The choice of the risk-free rate plus the bonus for the risk
What else did we have?
Alternative rates, which are available
This was about the possibility of borrowing on the market or investing in alternative projects
Finally, we have disassembled two models
Average capital expenditure and the CAPM model
Estimates of the cost of long-term assets
The CAPM model shows us that the profitability of the share, the profitability of the financial asset, the profitability of the asset and the profitability of the market are interconnected
And shows this interconnection in the quantitative measurement
The VISCC, the average capital expenditure, shows us the maximum expenses of this company for the maintenance of its capital
How much is it worth to maintain capital
This is the main means
How much is it worth to maintain the machine
How much is it worth to maintain capital
We also disassembled the money flows
We talked about the method of calculation based on the application of money flows, which is called the indirect method
We had to understand that there are three components of the money flow
This is the money flow from the main activity, from the investment and from the financial
Adding them together, we get the total amount of the money flow
This amount of money flow must be equal to the difference of the balance in the accounts at the beginning and at the end of the period
To calculate the income from the main activity, we must take the company's profit from the account of profits and losses
Recover it by the volume of amortization, recover it by the volume of profits and losses
Recover it by the volume of non-realized profits and non-realized losses
If we take the non-realized profit, we take it with a minus sign
If we take the loss, we take it with a plus sign
Then we recover it on the balance sheet
The investment activity is the purchase of securities, the purchase of equipment
And finally, the money flow from the financial activity, namely, the issuance of shares, the issuance of bonds, repayment of debts, repayment of bonds, payment of dividends
We have figured out how to find a discount rate, how to calculate the money flows of the project
Now we have all the parameters necessary to calculate the cost of the investment project
We calculate it
After calculating, we can move on to the main actions
The main actions are to calculate the NPV, the pure cost, the difference between the spent and the income
To calculate the error, the internal income rate, it was about determining at what interest rate the NPV of the project will be equal to zero
Then there was the profitability index and the period of purchase
Both parameters in discounted terms
Four main
We have considered several examples of how to use the NPV ideology to analyze the volume of sales,
to analyze the credit policy, to analyze the balance on the accounts,
to analyze the choice of one type of financial policy
Finally, the last thing we need to mention is that investment projects can be dependent
In this case, they lead to a certain adjustment of the money flows
Dependency means that you must take into account the consequences of the project you have chosen
We can draw a line here
I hope you will solve the tasks presented in the workbook,
you will go through the topic based on these tasks,
they are not difficult
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that maybe it will be written differently,
but in other words, so that you think about what this parameter means
But in principle, all the tasks are not difficult
Finally, the last two tasks in the workbook are a squeeze out of some real situations
where such studies were conducted
You solve them
And the last one is a small case that is presented to you
Your task is to recheck the investment project that is laid out there
The project is not difficult, it is the construction of a dacha settlement in Moscow suburbs
A very common business
There is NPV, there is IRR, there is a lot of things
Your task is to recheck these calculated data
taking into account the objective realities that exist on the market today
and to give your conclusion on how the project is calculated correctly
And plus, should they be engaged or not
That's all
Thank you for your attention
Thank you for watching